# Keys Assignments 

## Assignment 1: Internship Description 
This summer I am working in Dr. Tyson L. Swetnam's Lab. He is a Research Assistant Professor of Geoinformatics with a joint appointment in the School of Natural Resources and the Environment. Dr. Swetnam is part of the CyVerse initiative: a National Science Foundation funded cyberinfrastructure that promotes open source data, science, and collaboration in the biosciences. Dr. Swetnam's research is focused on using cyberinfrastructure to support and encourage reproducible research, along with geospatial analysis. The Lab's current projects include [Open Dendro](https://opendendro.org/), an initiative to restructure outdated dendrochronological software written in C, R, and Fortran into Python. Dr. Swetnam is involved in a plethora of other projects, but all of his projects show a commitment to open science through the use of open data and open software to promote reproducible research in information science. The primary project that I will be focused on this summer the improvement of spatio-temporal asset catalog (STAC) catalogs for use in Google's Earth Engine. Each spatio-temporal asset is a file or dataset that contains information about the Earth captured at a specific time. By streamlining this process and working on making these datsets more accessible it ensures equal access and promotes open science. 

#### Project Description
This summer I will be working on improving the STAC catalogs for the awesome-gee-community-datasets. This is a project spearheaded by Dr. Swetnam's former graduate student and colleague, Samapriya Roy. The project is focused on improving datasets for community use with Google's Earth Engine Catalog, a tool for mapping satellite and geospatial data across the Earth's surface to detect changes and trends. The awesome-gee-commmunity-datasets are a set of community gathered and organized geospatial data that is preprocessed to allow for easy use with Google's Earth Engine. This summer I will work on improving the spatial-temporal asset (STAC) catalogs for these datasets to improve ease of use and access. A STAC catalog serves as a standardized way of storing and indexing geospatial data for easy discovery and use. This creates a common langauge and format that ensures previous code doesn't need to be rewritten, promoting open data, software, and science. 
